Examples of Duties:

    Under general supervision, processes, examines and analyzes computer hardware, software, electronically stored data and other computer-related evidentiary materials pertaining to law enforcement investigations.
    Prepares and presents reports of findings, provides expert testimony, and performs a variety of crime laboratory duties.
    Conducts thorough examinations of computer hard disk drives, and other electronic data storage media.
    Preserves and copies the original media.
    Prevents the transference of viruses, destructive programs, and inadvertent writes to and from the original media.
    Restores recoverable deleted files.
    Accesses password-protected and secured files.
    Uses forensic software applications to analyze electronic media
    Examines the contents of a computer's CMOS.
    Examines boot record data, system configuration, and operation command files.
    Verifies the correctness of the computer's internal clock.
    Physically disassembles and examines computers and related hardware components.
    Identifies evidence of computer crimes such as the theft and sabotage of data; unlawful access of data and systems; fraudulent use of bank, credit, and telecommunications accounts; and the trafficking of pornography.
    Examines and analyzes text, graphics, multimedia, and digital images.
    Collects and transports evidence from crime scenes.
    Labels and secures evidence.
    Prepares and presents reports of examinations and findings.
    Assists in the preparation of search and seizure warrants, court orders, and subpoenas.
    Works with prosecutors and others to prepare cases for trial.
    Provides expert opinion testimony in courts.
    Interviews suspects and witnesses.
    Trains and instructs other employees.
    Provides advice and guidance regarding computer crimes.
    Gives presentations to community groups.

 

(NOTE: The duties and responsibilities listed above are for the purpose of determining a common set of minimum qualifications for all positions in this class. They may not include all of the essential job functions of each position in the class. Each position may not be required to perform all of the essential job functions listed.)

 

Qualifications:

    Possession of a bachelor's degree in computer science, information technology, or a related field with at least two years of experience in computer forensics, computer systems analysis, and/or the operation, maintenance and repair of computer systems. 
    Additional experience may be substituted on a year-for-year basis for the required education. 
    Education beyond a bachelor's degree may be substituted on a year-for-year basis for the required experience. 

 

Licenses and Certificates - Possession of a valid driver's license equivalent to a non-commercial, class C Maryland driver's license is required at the time of appointment. All licenses and certifications must be maintained throughout employment. 

 

Character Requirements - All applicants must be of good moral character and emotionally stable, as determined by a comprehensive background investigation, polygraph examination, and drug test. Employees are subject to periodic drug testing. 

 

Proof of Education, Licenses and Certificates - Applicants are required to submit proof of education beyond high school to meet the required qualifications for this job. Diplomas or transcripts must show the applicant's major field of study. Copies and unofficial transcripts are acceptable. Proof of licenses, certifications, and/or education must be submitted with each application. 

 

Proof of Degree Equivalency - Applicants who have obtained a degree outside the United States of America are required to submit degree equivalency documentation from the World Education Services, Inc. (www.wes.org) 

 

Preferred Qualifications - At least two years of work experience in computer forensics or computer systems analysis. Forensic experience using the following techniques and tools - write blockers, Encase, FTK, AXIOM, x-ways, Celebrite, XRY. 
